D'Angelo Russell was the second overall pick in the 2015 NBA draft by the Lakers behind the #1 draft pick, Karl Anthony Towns.  He played a single year at Ohio State before declaring for the NBA draft and during his season with the Buckeyes, he averaged a remarkable 19.3 points, 5.7 rebounds, 5.0 assists, and 1.6 steals per game as a freshman.  He joined a very bad Lakers team that was going through the final year tour for Kobe Bryant who had come off various injuries, but managed to put up some significant numbers averaging 13.2 points, 3.4 rebounds, and 3.3 assists per game including a career high 39 point, 8 three pointer game against the Brooklyn Nets, this was the most by any rookie for the Lakers since Elgin Baylor scored 55 in March 1959, the 8 three pointers were the most in a game by any Laker.  Unfortunately Russell often times showed immaturity while playing for the Lakers, sometimes making bad decisions on the offensive end, but this is quite typical for rookies with no experience in the NBA.  His biggest fallacy while with the Lakers was probably him accidentally tweeting a video about himself talking about fellow teammate Nick Young's infidelity to his fiancee of the time, Iggy Azalea.  This caused a media circus and for the struggling Lakers organization and really started a downwards spiral for their backing of Russell.


Lonzo Ball was a player many had praised for his court vision, ability to pass the ball, ability to own the entire offense.  During his single year at UCLA, Ball averaged a pretty solid 14.6 points, 7.6 assists, and 6.0 rebounds.  The problem was that he had this extremely strange hitch in his shot that made his shooting very questionable and inconsistent at times, there were no questions about his defense and passing, but this was certainly a contention point, the ball would start from the far right of his body, swing across most of his chest then and only then would he begin to shoot the ball.  With the coming of Lonzo Ball, the Lakers used their 2017 second draft pick to select Lonzo Ball which solidified the need to trade D'angelo Russell to the Brooklyn Nets.  In season 2 for Ball, he slightly adjusted his shooting stroke which removed the need to bring the ball from the right side of his body, but his shot still begins very low, in his chest area, most shooters start above the neck, but it's an incremental improvement over his previous mechanics.  The simpler the movement, the more consistent the shot, Stephen Curry, for example, has a very simplified form.


Russell actually has a pretty good shooting stroke, he also has excellent court vision, can run an entire offense, and is a pretty solid defender at 196cm with long arms.  At times he still shows immaturity and bad decision making on the court, but I think he's starting to grow into a very good player in the NBA, obviously he has a couple more years than Ball in the NBA, but Ball is probably the more mature player when comparing the two in terms of overall maturity.  Case in point, many believe shedding Russell and adding Ball paved the way for Magic Johnson to sign then free agent, Lebron James.  James typically likes players that listen to him, he is an alpha male, the ball goes through him most of the time, he makes the key decisions, you listen to him.  Ball fits very well into that mode even though I would argue that his talent isn't as good as Russell's.  Russell's personality is more fiery, he has his own approach to things and his own style as evidenced by his constant physical changes of hair, tattoos, his immaturity off the court.  Ball, even with a rambunctious father, Lavar Ball, constantly making headlines in the past, was calm and cool, and played through that phase without getting much negativity attached to him.  I'm pretty sure if Russell stayed, Lebron James would not have come to the Lakers.


OKC started the year off well, but has recently been on big slump, losing to teams like the Washington Wizards, Atlanta Hawks, Minnesota Timberwolves, and two overtime losses to the San Antonio Spurs and Los Angeles Lakers.  They have gone 1-5 in the last six games, so what exactly is happening?  Let's break this down and look at the reasons.

John Wall announced season ending surgery on his ankle and heel, this oddly timed decision was suspiciously close to management's decision to make all players available for trade, the reason being that this surgery makes Wall undesirable as a trade target because of his inability to be a factor this year and the risk that he may not be the same player after surgery.  This has actually been a boon for the Wizards as a similar to last year, Beal and the rest of the team have been stepping things up since Wall went for surgery and are actually 6-6 over the last 12 games with quality wins over OKC, 76ers, and the east leading Bucks.  Beal had an incredible 43 point outburst in a double overtime loss to the surging Raptors by 2 points.  But let's just assume that the Wizards are revitalized and playing with a vendetta.

Minnesota, after firing head coach and President of Basketball Operations, Tom Thibodeau, was looking to get their first win against for new head coach, Ryan Saunders, son of the late Flip Saunders, a long time Timberwolves staple, and Minnesota's had a long time rivalry with OKC as they're both in the northwest conference.  So let's attribute this to a fluke, the game was pretty close.  The double overtime loss to the Spurs was avenged with a 10 point win over the Spurs and the Spurs are surging at the moment with a 7-3 record over the last 10 games.  But the two follow on losses to the lowly Atlanta Hawks which was a 16 point loss to one of the worst teams in the league is an utter embarrassment for OKC, this game should have been won and should have been won handily.  The Lakers loss without Lebron James and Rajon Rondo was a total embarrassment for this organization on their own home court, a game which saw Ivica Zubac score 26 points from the bench, mostly off wide open dunks, so what went wrong?  Paul George scored a team leading 27 points, Westbrook followed with 26, and each of the starting five scored double digits, turnovers were reasonable, but the two things that killed OKC in this game was the rebounding and free throw shooting, OKC was out rebounded 63-44 and went 24-36 (67%) from the charity stripe versus the Lakers' 19-21 (90%).  Nerlens Noel suffered a pretty gruesome concussion where he basically went unconscious mid air and landed without his hands bracing his head which hit the ground hard as Andrew Wiggins elbowed Noel's head while going up for a dunk during the Timberwolves game.  This left OKC without their backup big and Alex Abrines has still been nowhere to be found, sighting personal issues that he needs to sort out with no timetable for return.  Andre Roberson still has no time table for his return, it's almost a full year since his injury.  This just shows that OKC is very dependent on their full roster to pull out wins, I don't think Westbrook and George had a bad game by any means, it just seems that the defense was poor and the Lakers were making their shots.